here is Jam Abu Zuna who's in Gaza so
jam just paint the picture for us we
have this order for people to evacuate
what's going
on as I previously described uh people
are in dozens here uh sleeping on the
floor outside uh the building because
there's no space for them with their
families children and elderly people who
need immediate um uh Healthcare uh
assistance uh also now just minute ago
we have um witnessed witnessed some
some missiles being B being hit from
Gaza to Israel from the south of Gaza
from canun uh even though we heard that
there's going to be a thief fire uh to
to let the people have a chance uh to to
come to the south of Gaza to flee from
the north but um it looks like there's
no se fire uh also there's um there's a
a catastrophic situation because it
looks like uh there's a
discrimination between the UN UNP uh
staff and uh the international NGO staff
which has created chaos and it helped to
escalate the situation there's a
discrimination in providing food uh
shelter and all the essential supplies
so J am I right in saying that you're
still in the north are you planning to
head south or have you left already no
I'm at the South I'm inun in training
center for the UN right and and so and
what did you see on your way down what
was what was the journey and and what's
what are people doing in their effort to
get
South okay uh we uh went by un cars uh
as we were instructed there were citizen
cars uh riding uh right behind us so the
Convoy was from the UNP headquarters to
the south of of Gaza in hanun we went by
arid route which is by the Sea there
were many destructions um uh in in the
streets but we had to go from a specific
route uh and they were also bombing
along the way as we arrived here as I
said before the situation was
uh un
Indescribable people are getting more
and more in here the the numbers are
increasing and um people were advised to
go to the
South uh to different areas in the South
no matter where uh whether a un building
or not but they're fleeing the north
completely as bombings are getting
heavier what about those who cannot
leave especially those in hospitals we
heard from the World Health Organization
saying that it amounted what Israel was
asking for amounted to a death sentence
for
them this is a disaster that there are
many people who are unable to leave
because of their situation I have
personally I have no clue uh what's
their situation because since uh this
early morning I had no internet
connection but we're off right now uh we
can't contact anyone unless he's from uh
he's calling from a a landline so I have
no clue what's happening but I can only
describe what I'm seeing right
now so J tell us about the situation
with supplies and so forth because
clearly uh that's only getting worse day
by day because no replenishments nothing
no food or fuel is coming into
Gaza yes uh I think uh the supplies are
very little there are very few supplies
we have carried our own food from the
previous days uh to to um to to provide
for us and to to today but I don't think
it's going to be enough for the couple
uh the couple few the couple days that
that are coming uh especially that we
have no idea what's going to happen in
the next few hours the next today we
have no clue where we're going where are
they going to take us uh there's no
clear
plan Jam thanks very much for that
update appreciate that interesting to
hear about your efforts to get South J
Abu Zuna our correspondent who's in Gaz
car Unis in the
South and let's bring in yusri alul now
he's a Palestinian political writer and
a Gaza resident it joins us on the phone
from Gaza welcome to Al jazer could you
just tell us first of all what part of
Gaza you're in are you in the northern
area where Israel has asked everybody to
leave yes uh good evening at first I'm
staying in sh camp where it locates in
the northern place of Gaza uh situation
here is so misery I talk after you you
ask me but situation is so misery and I
you cannot imagine how misery when I
came just uh for this
call right describe it for me what what
kind of things are people having to put
up
with uh most of the people here in Gaza
are suffering from the Bloodshed from
the rockets that and uh bombings that
comes from the Israeli airplanes now
people are immigrating to uh uh nothing
place and most of the Palestinian now
are leaving and unfortunately uh the
Israeli targeting also people who's
leaving the Israeli says that we should
leave our lands and to go to ra and uh
and the middle of Gaza but they are
targeting the civilians so you're saying
that ordinary civilians who are trying
to move South to places like K Unis are
being targeted in attacks as well by the
Israelis and as I told you most the the
the whole Gaza Strip which is
365 kilomet Square is target targeted by
the Israeli uh uh occupation forces and
they are not leaving anybody here
without uh horror without uh ter
terrifying them the people here in
Gaza under uh fire they are targeting
anybody not only the people who's
staying in in jabalia or in Bon or in
Peach Camp they are targeting also the
people in kanun and in RAF and just a
few minutes and they are targeting
people fromat where it locates in the
middle of the Gaz
STP can you describe for us your three
what it's like when the bombardment
starts and how it is for that sense of
you know you just don't know if it's
going to hit you or not yes I'm not
going to tell you about me I'm going to
tell you about my children my my my
daughter which is always frightened she
is always feeling me I'm I'm I can't say
she feels that she's going to die
because the bmps which is uh targeting
the the buildings the civilian buildings
or the houses it's it's something which
is is incredible as they say incredible
people doesn't imagine even in in the in
the horrific situation uh to be uh
targeted like this situ we are under uh
genocide Israeli uh occupation forces
are targeting every single or tiny thing
they are targeting the animals targeting
the sewi system the the the water they
are we have nothing here yeah you cannot
imagine how how misery situation I'm
talking to you and I'm coming I'm
feeling that when just a call me they
target my my cell phone because I'm
talking about the Palestinian situation
in Gaza they didn't want people know
what's happening here they're just
having their propaganda saying that we
are attacked by the the militants
Palestinians but are not talking about
what happened what is the the reasons
that led the Palestinians to search for
their freedom search for any kind of to
live like any human in any part of the
world given what's happening to you yri
and all the the terrible things you're
having to go through what do you think
about what happened last weekend uh what
the Hamas Fighters
did do you do you portion any blame to
them because of what's happening
now just before to tell you about this
question I'm just going to tell you I
built a new house and I said that I'm
going to leave and stay in it just in
Saturday but unfortunately the
aggression happened and and the Israeli
occupation forces Air Forces destructed
and destroyed my building my new
building and I left home to came just to
the camp to the people where were
millions of Palestinians were I think uh
for about uh 300 uh thousands of
Palestinians are living in a crowded
place in in pitam about your question if
I had blame the Palestinian uh militant
groups I can't blame those people
because they they did what happened
because uh unfortunately no airports no
seap ports no any kind of humanity you
cannot find no celery no cbin no no the
Mis situation here in bistan in Gaza
especially is is under siege for about
16 years we here cannot leave our land
we cannot go to Egypt except uh we need
to suffer just to to apply for the the
the ministry of interior to allow us
after one month or two months to leave
Gaza to travel to Egypt and also Israeli
checkpoints we can't have the access to
go to through our lands to Jordan or any
place so if I blame I blame the
situation that L this those people to do
what happened I humiliate anyone that
kills animals even if animals but what
happened Israeli killed thousands of
Palestinians prison thousands of
children and women and and old men
Israeli unfortunately didn't understand
that we are human seeking Freedom we are
seeking un resolutions which is
not allowed or or accepted by the
Israeli government y we we'll leave it
there we do really appreciate you
speaking to us there from Gaza and hope
for better times and most of all safety
for you and your family and indeed your
daughter who you spoke so powerfully
about yri arul Palestinian political
writer and a resident in Gaza in the
midst of all
this well protest ongoing in rala in the
occupied West Bank against the war in
Gaza they're making protests making
their way to the illegal settlement of
bet L Nita Ibrahim is there joins us
live Nita tell us what's
happening well the protest has made its
way here to the illegal Israeli
settlement of betel where Israeli forces
are trying to suppress it using live
fire as well as tear gas just a few
seconds ago I'm not sure if you were
able to hear but some fireworks were
thrown towards the Israeli Army side as
kind of a way for Palestinian protesters
to uh uh camouflage and distract the
Israeli soldiers that are in front of
the protesters now all in all in the
Palestinian territory in the occupied
West Bank since this morning we're
talking about four Palestinians who have
been killed as a result of the protest
that are taking place in different areas
here in the West Bank according to the
latest figures by the medical teams and
the red Cresent they talk about
124 injuries some of those are hit with
live ammunition so this is the scene
here in the occupied West Bank just
since Thursday morning we're talking
about 11 Palestinians who have been
killed by Israeli forces fire and by
Israeli settlers fire remember we talked
about settlers having arms and you're
talking about a population that is
largely only armed with rocks if so so
we already have seen the Israeli
settlers taking more weapons as
politician are lobbying to get Israeli
settlers more arms so there's a fear
here that Palestinians are being left
alone dealing with not only the Israeli
soldiers and the Israeli forces that are
armed to their teeth with snipers and
all of the most equipped developments
and equipped uh uh vehicles but also
you're talking about settlers and when
we talk about settlements they're so
very close to Palestinian communities
that even if someone is at their house
they could be a target of those settlers
because they've been expanding in the
past few years and decades and inching
closer and closer towards Palestinian
communities basically they're getting
more bold with the increase in numbers
remember when we talk about the Israeli
settlements there was a time when they
were a minority here in the West Bank
they used to be scared from the
Palestinian presence here but now with
the growth of those settlements the
audacity of them is increasing we're
talking about on average three attacks
by Israeli settlers against Palestinians
per day so when we talk about settlers
we're not just talking about the lands
they take but also the violence they
cause and we've seen that violence push
populations away we're talking about
more than 500 people who have already
fled their homes and their uh bwing
communities in the occupied West Bank in
the Jordan Valley as a result of the
violence of those settlers right and as
and when and I suppose we should say if
the Israeli offensive proceeds into Gaza
tensions we seeing all around the region
they're only going to
increase indeed and Palestinians here
have already had an intense two years at
least we've been seeing the Israeli
forces uh raid Palestinian towns almost
on a daily basis killing Palestinians
we've already been reporting that to to
this year has been the deadliest 2023 in
two decades nearly here in the occupied
West Bank as a result of the continuous
raids by the Israeli forces now we've
seen Palestinian groups in nais and in
Janine gather themselves in groups and
carry arms and commit attacks and
conduct attacks against Israeli targets
whether it's Israeli military
checkpoints or Israeli settlements but
in large you're talking about a
population that is not armed that
doesn't have access to weapons and let
me remind you that they are under the
rule of the Palestinian Authority this
is an authority that has been saying it
is not supportive of any armed struggle
and we've just listened in to the
Palestinian president's statement after
his meeting with the US uh Secretary of
State Anthony blinkin saying that he's
you
know the denouncing really uh violence
against civilians from both sides we can
say that he did not condemn Hamas
directly but definitely the statement
has something of sort of basically uh
talking about the nonviolent resistance
so here people feel that they've been
left alone dealing with armed settlers
armed uh soldiers while their Authority
is incapable of protecting them while
calling for peaceful protests as you can
see even those peaceful protests that
have been happening here near the
illegal Israeli settlement of bet L are
being faced with tear gas with live
ammunition
already we talk about four Palestinians
who have lost their lives just this
morning after those confrontations
raising the total of Palestinians who
have been killed since the beginning of
this escalation to 40 all right Nita
we'll leave it there thanks very much
indeed for that Nita Ibrahim reporting
on the ongoing situation there in beta